♪ When I think back ♪
♪ On all the crap I learned in high school ♪
♪ It's a wonder ♪
♪ I can think at all ♪
I have no idea why they don't teach us about saving money
and personal money management in all schools.
Instead of all the useless business stuff we never
really use, like supply and demand bogus theoretical charts,
or too much calculus.
You know, teach your kids or siblings,
or other relatives or friends, about saving money,
because when one teaches, two learn.
And at dinner, if you have kids, teach them about what
you learned in this course, especially the very first
exercise that we did when we looked at how much money
we could save by not buying coffee or tea daily.
Kids all want, they all want instant gratification,
unless we show them the power of compound interest.
And I found that when I was younger and in school,
sometimes, but not often, other students (laughing)
in my class would ask me for help.
And when I helped them, I actually learned the stuff better.
I think you know what I mean.
And so again, when one teaches, two learn.
So, teach your kids about money.
And you'll end up saving, protecting, and making a lot more.
And those are the three pillars of this course, obviously.
And teach them about what you're learning in the course
when you have dinner each night, okay?
And again, it's a way for you to kinda reinforce what
you learn as we go through this journey together.
And there's a saying that I heard recently,
which is interesting, which is,
when you have small kids, you have small problems.
But when you have big kids, you have big problems.
Let me add the word, money, to that saying, okay?
When you have small kids, you have small money problems.
But when you have big kids, you have big money problems,
unless you teach them about money from a young age.
And I actually overdid this, to be honest, with my kids.
And when my middle child,
Matthew, was three years old (laughing),
we were having lunch and I paid in cash.
And he said, "Money is bad, right, Dad?"
Anyway, my kids teach me so much.
I actually told him it's not bad, but just, anyway,
I taught him life lessons like I'm teaching you
in this course, humbly.
And I even remember, later that day when
we were driving home, and I had an apple core and
I threw it out the window and Matthew said to me,
"Dad, don't be mean to the Earf." (laughing)
Okay, let me move on here.
My grandfather, he grew up during the Great Depression,
and we, grew up during the Great Recession.
What do I mean by that?
Well, we were literally within 24 hours, we were within
24 hours of bank machines not working in 2008.
It was a crazy time.
And I blame my parents, if they helped me
five years earlier, I'd actually have money. (laughter)
I'm just kidding obviously. (laughing)
I blame myself only for everything.
Okay so, just like how I learned to be frugal or cheap
from my grandfather, you can teach your kids the same
lessons as the Great Recession of 2008 was similar,
actually, to the Great Depression.
And, with kids,
make saving money fun for them, like a game.
Get them to appreciate and save money so that,
when you or I spend money incorrectly,
our kids kinda call us out on it.
And I love my kids, when they correct me,
when I spend money incorrectly.
They say things to me like, "Dad, you know you coulda
gotten that cheaper on Amazon."
Or, "Dad, did you know we can save money if we buy that
video game later?"
I bought them Super Mario Oddyssey the day it came out,
for them. (clears throat)
Kidding, sort of, it's a masterpiece, okay.
I actually sort of learned about a business
when I was younger, back in the 80s,
when I used to play this game called SimCity.
So, I'm dating myself here, I know.
A lot of people don't even know what this thing is, here.
They call it a floppy disk 'cause it used to be floppy.
I never throw anything out, which my wife can't stand.
It's okay, though.
And recently, I actually introduced my kids to the more
recent version of SimCity, as an amazing way to learn about
business, taxes, budgeting,
loans, mortgages, location, location, location,
real estate investing, and overspending as well.
And as a quick side note,
my son Matthew and I are actually making...
he's 12 now, he'll be 13 next year, by the time
this course comes out, but we're actually together making
a free course, coming out within the next year,
teaching kids about business, as well as saving, protecting,
and making money by analyzing Clash of Clans strategies.
It's gonna be a lot of fun.
And it'll be free, look for it within the next year.
And, other ways to get kids interested in saving,
is to show them how to sell their video games
or unused Legos or toys, et cetera, on eBay,
like we talked about earlier in the course.
And let them spend part of the proceeds and save the rest.
It's never too early to start saving.
Get them to look at aliexpress.com
for cool things to sell at school, or on eBay,
with the help of you, of course.
And just teach them about arbitrage, meaning, buying stuff
cheaper and selling it for more.
Which basically is what all retail stores do.
Lastly, this is kinda cool.
You can get your kids interested in the stock market,
which we'll talk about in part three of the course.
You can get your kids interested in the stock market
at www.giveashare.com.
And I'm gonna show you something in a second,
which is pretty cool.
At giveashare.com, what you can do, is you can buy them,
buy your kids, a framed certificate of a share of,
Walt Disney, for example, or Nike, which is dope,
according to my kids.
Right, that's...I know, I'm trying to act cool,
I'm not, I get it.
Or any cool brand (chuckles) that they love.
And you can have them hang it on their wall if they want.
And you can even...
I'm gonna show this to you, this is kinda fun.
You can even buy them a share of a sports team.
So, I've got one here for my son, Andrew.
He's gettin' this for Christmas, in a week or two.
It's a share of Manchester United.
And that's obviously a football team.
The real football, sorry, which is pretty cool.
I think he'll like this.
And hopefully it teaches him to save.
He's my older kid.
And this gift, it serves a couple of purposes.
Number one, he loves the sport of football.
And number two, it's a reminder that he should always
think about saving.
It's pretty cool to have on your wall, too.
Andrew actually asked
for a new Xbox
FIFA game, this Christmas.
And he said, "Dad, no, it's FIFA!"
Right, you know, I'm old, whatever.
And I said, Andrew, you already got that game last year
so why do you need another one, anyway?
And so, instead I bought him this...
I know, they changed the players and all that cool stuff.
But I bought him this badass Manchester United stock
certificate, which again, I'll give it to him on Christmas.
'Cause this will go up in value but
video games will go down in value.
Right?
Depreciation.
And I'm gonna let Santa get him really boring gifts,
like socks, or clothes.
This Manchester United thing is from me, not Santa.
So, Santa will buy him clothes and socks.
Just kidding, (clears throat) sort of, no, no I'm not.
Okay, so I want all the street credit
for getting him this dope gift.
Okay.
Now, we are done with part one of the course,
which was the saving portion of the course.
And I really hope you enjoyed taking it
as much as I have making it.
And I will see you in part two of the course,
where we will discuss protecting money.
And then in part three, we will discuss making money.
Thank you.